[INGI2172] Add exam June 2019 (#726)
Gp2mv3/Syntheses: src/q8/database-INGI2172/exam/2019/Juin/All/database-INGI2172-exam-2019-Juin-All.tex

\documentclass[en]{../../../../../../eplexam}

\hypertitle{Databases}{8}{INGI}{2172}{2019}{Juin}{All}
{INFO student 2019}
{Siegfried Nijssen}

\section{Part I - Open questions (11pt)}

\begin{figure}[h!]
\centering
      \includegraphics[width=0.6\textwidth]{LSINF2172.png}
\end{figure}

\subsection{Q1 (1pt)}
SQL to relational algebra, multiple choice question.

\subsection{Q2 (1pt)}
SQL to relational algebra.

> The query counted, for each pair of city, the number of distinct days where a reservation was made by a customer of the first city, for a car owned by a customer of the second city.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The query counted, for each pair of cities, the number of distinct days where a reservation was made by a customer of the first city, for a car owned by a customer of the second city.
```

\subsection{Q3 (1pt)}
Relational algebra to SQL.

\subsection{Q4 (3pt)}
ER Chen diagram of the database.

\subsection{Q5 (1pt)}
Explain a relation algebra query.

The query returned the owners that have at least two vehicles of the same type.

\subsection{Q6 (2pt)}
Given the following query in relational algebra:
\[ \pi_{type} \left( \sigma_{car_id=car_id' \wedge city="LLN"} \left( \rho_{car_id \rightarrow car_id'}(\mathrm{Car}) \bowtie \mathrm{Customer} \bowtie \mathrm{CarRent} \right) \right). \]

Optimise it as much as possible. It is not mandatory to use the procedure given during the lectures.

\subsection{Q7 (2pt)}

> Find all index of a SQL query. Note that the database is likely to contain thousands of records for each city and for each day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find all indices of an SQL query. Note that the database is likely to contain thousands of records for each city and for each day.
```

Pour le a\an, on est censé prononcer ça comme si on épelait les lettres ou comme "sequel"? Ça change ici...

Reviewer 2: Les deux sont acceptés, et le prof dit "Sequel"

> The query was something like "Count the number of rides (per type of vehicle?) where the day\_id > 55 and the city is Bastogne".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The query was something like ``Count the number of rides (per type of vehicle?) where the day\_id > 55 and the city is Bastogne''.
```

\nosolution

\section{Part II - Multiple choices questions (9pt)}

\subsection{Q8 (1pt)}
Find which statements were correct in a relational algebra with NULL values. The three statements included an outer join between R1(A, B) and R2(B, C) with diverse combinations of selection upon A or B, first on R1 and R2, or on (R1 outer join R2).

\subsection{Q9 (1pt)}
Find relational algebra query with not empty result

The table was
\begin{center}
\begin{tabular}{|c|c|}
    \hline
    a1 & b1 \\
    \hline
    a1 & b2 \\
    \hline
    a2 & b1 \\
    \hline
\end{tabular}
\end{center}

Some of the queries were

> \begin{itemize}

Reviewer: Dans la liste ci-dessous, les "|" peuvent être remplacés par "\mid" et ça serait plus propre avec les espaces entre.

>     \item $\{t.A | R(t) \wedge t.A = "a1"\}$ (true)

Author: ```suggestion
    \item $\{t.A \mid R(t) \wedge t.A = "a1"\}$ (true)
```

>     \item $\{t.A | R(t) \wedge \forall t' (R(t') \implies t'.A = "a1")\}$ (true)

Author: ```suggestion
    \item $\{t.A \mid R(t) \wedge \forall t' (R(t') \implies t'.A = "a1")\}$ (true)
```

>     \item $\{t.A | R(t) \wedge \forall t' (t'.A = "a1" \implies R(t'))\}$ (true)

Author: ```suggestion
    \item $\{t.A \mid R(t) \wedge \forall t' (t'.A = "a1" \implies R(t'))\}$ (true)
```
